uniforms of the young fellows one meets with in the fashionable quarters. It is the difference between reality and sham,
bravery and bombast.
The newspapers are beginning to complain of the number of chevaliers of the Red Cross, who are daily becoming more
numerous. Strong men, they say, should not enro themselves in a corps of non-combatants. It is said, also, that at
Clamart these chevaliers declined to go under fire and pick up the wounded, and that the ambulances themselves made
a strategic movement to the rear at the commencement of the combat. The flag of the Convention of Geneva is on far too
many houses. From my window I can count fifteen houses with this flag floating over them.
We have most wonderful stories about the Prussians, which, although they are generally credited, I take leave to doubt.
Villagers who have slipped through the lines and who play the part of the intelligent contraband of the American Civil
War, are our informants. They represent the Prussian army without food, almost without clothing, bitterly repent their
advance into France, demoralised by the conviction that few of their number will be again in their homes. We are treated
evert day, too, to the details of deeds of heroism on the part of Mobiles and Nationaux, which would make Achilles
himself jealous. There is, we are told, a wonderful artilleryman in the fort before St. Denis, the perfection of whose aim
carries death and destruction into the Prussian ranks.
I am not sorry to learn that the sale of the ultra papers is not large. M. Blanqui's office was yesterday broken into by some
Nation Guards, who made it clear to this worthy that he had ill chosen his moment to attack the Government. I have not
myself the slightest dread of a general pillage. The majority of the working men no doubt entertain extreme Socialist ideas,
but any one of them who declined to make any distinction between his property and that of his richer neighbours would
be very roughly handled. So long as the Government sticks to its policy of no surrender, it will be supported by the
faubourgs; if, however, it attempts to capitulate upan humiliating terms, it will be ejected from the Hotel de Ville. A sharp
bombardment may, perhaps, make a change in public opinion, but I can only speak of the opinion of to-day. The
Government declares that it can never run short of ammunition; nut it seems to me that we cannot fire off powder and
projectiles eternally, and that one of these mornings we shall be told that we must capitulate, as there is no more
ammunition. Americans who are here, complain very much of the Parisians for not using the spade more than they do.
Earthworks, which played so large a part in the defence both of Sebastopol and Richmond, are unknown at Paris.
Barricades made of paving stones in the streets, and forts of solid masonry outside, are considered the _ne plus ultra_ of
defensive works. For one man who will go to work to shovel earth, you may find a thousand who will shoulder a musket.
"Paris may be able to defend itself," the Americans say, "but it is not defending itself after what our generals would
consider the most approved method" We have no intelligence of what is passing in the France beyond our lines. We
presume that a great army is forming beyond the Loire; but yesterdat a friend of mine, who received this assurance from
M. Gambetta, could not discover that he had any reason to believe it, exvept the hope that it was true.
It is a somewhat singular thing that Rochefort, who was regarded even by his friends as a vain, mad-brained
demagogue, has proved himself one of the most sensible and practical members of the Government. He has entirey
subordinated his own particular views to the exigencies of the defence of the capital; and it is owing to his good sense that
the ultras have not indulges in any revolutionary excesses.
I have already endeavored to forward to you, by land, water, and air, copies of the Tuileries papers which have been
published. That poor old pantaloon, Villemessant, the proprietor and editor of the _Figaro_, who is somewhat roughly
handled by them, attempts to defend himself in his paper this morning, but utterly fails to do so. His interested connection
with the Imperal Government is proved without the shodow of a doubt, and I trust that it will also prove the death of his
newspaper, which has long been a disgrace to the press of France. I went to look after the proprietor of another paper
yesterday, as he had promised me that, come what may, he would get his own and my letters through the Prussian lines.
My friend, I found, had taken himself off to sage quarters before the last road was closed. For my part I despise any
Parisian who has not remained here to defend his native city, whether he Imperialist or Republician, noble or
merchant.
Thet could stand it no longer; the afternoon was too fine. Stern patriotism unbent, and tragic severity of demeanour was
forgotten The Champs Elysees and the Avenue de la Grande Armee were full of people. Monsieur shone by his
absence; he was at the ramparts, or was supposed to be there; but his wife, his childre. his _bonne_, and his kitchen
wench issued forth, oblivious alike of dull care and of bombarding Prussians, to enjou themselves after their wont by
gossiping and lolling in the sun. The Starsburg fetish had its usual crowd of admirers. Every bench in the Champs
Elysees was occupied. Guitars twanged, organs were ground, merry-go-rounds were in full swing, and had it not been
that here and there some regiment was drilling, one would have supposed onedelf in some country fair. There were but
few men; no fine toilets, no private carriages. It was a sort of Greenwich-park. At the Arc de Triomphe was crowd trying
to discover what was going on upon the heights abouve Argenteuil. Some declared they saw Prussians, while others with
opera glasses declared that the supposed Prussians were only trees. In the Avenue de I'Imperatrive was a large crowd
gazing upon the Fort of Mont Valerien. This fort, because I presume it is the strongest for defence, is the favourite of the
